.TH BUILDTOOL "1" "April 2001" "buildtool " MEZZANINE
.SH NAME
buildtool, mzbuild \- Product Build Management Tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBbuildtool\fR [ -hdvbpqQDflPtC ]
.br
\fBmzbuild\fR [ -hdvbpqQDflPtC ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
buildtool takes product description files ("prod files") and
creates products from their component packages based on the
information in those files.  It will utilize some of the other Mezzanine
components to perform this task.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR \fB\-\-help\fR
Show usage information, then exit
.TP
\fB\-d\fR \fB\-\-debug\fR
Turn on debugging
.TP
\fB\-v\fR \fB\-\-version\fR
Show version and copyright, then exit
.TP
\fB\-b\fR \fB\-\-build\fR <stage>
Stop building after a particular stage (see below)
.TP
\fB\-p\fR \fB\-\-product\fR \fB\-\-package\fR <name>
Specify the product or package to build
.TP
\fB\-q\fR \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Be somewhat quiet.  Simply gives basic progress info
.TP
\fB\-Q\fR \fB\-\-really\-quiet\fR \fB\-\-silent\fR
Be very quiet.  Only errors are reported
.TP
\fB\-D\fR \fB\-\-dir\fR <directory>
Specify "directory" as the base directory for the build
.TP
\fB\-f\fR \fB\-\-force\fR
Ignore errors, build as much as possible
.TP
\fB\-l\fR \fB\-\-log\fR <logfile>
Specify a log file to send informational output to
.TP
\fB\-P\fR \fB\-\-parallel\fR [expr]
Parallelize the build process based on the number of CPU's
.TP
\fB\-t\fR \fB\-\-target\fR <arch>
Tell rpm to build for a particular target architecture
.TP
\fB\-C\fR \fB\-\-cflags\fR <flags>
Specify the $CFLAGS variable to use for building
.TP
\fB\-\-tree\fR <repository>
Specify the repository to use (overrides all product files)
.TP
\fB\-\-tag\fR <tag>
Specify a tag to use (overrides all product files)
.TP
\fB\-\-nocache\fR
Do not scan the cache (use with care)
.TP
\fB\-\-clean\fR
Clean up RPM and buildroot directories when done
.SH BUILD OPTIONS
The stages and their abbreviations (for use with the -b option) are:
.TP
bootstrap (\fBs\fR)
.TP
component (\fBc\fR)
.TP
build (\fBb\fR)
.TP
package accumulation (\fBp\fR)
.PP
The default is -bp if you do not specify otherwise.
.SH OPERATION
\fBbuildtool\fR will try to figure out what kind of source tree you're
building.  These are an Mezzanine source tree, a binary SRPM package or a
standard source tree with an Mezzanine-specific Makefile, called
Makefile.mezz.  

Blah Blah Blah about SRPMs and Mezzanine source trees.

.B Tying standard trees into Mezzanine.
The Makefile.mezz file is intended to contain the glue necessary to
bind the original source tree's build infrastructure to what Mezzanine
expects.  This is usually accomplished by creating a default target
that simply creates RPMs using the original Makefile and then copies
the resulting source and binary RPMs to a pre-defined location.

See /usr/share/doc/mezzanine/Makefile.mezz.sample for more details.

The preferred operation is Mezzanine source trees.

.SH SEE ALSO
revtool(1), pkgtool(1), /usr/share/doc/mezzanine/product_files.txt
.SH AUTHORS
Copyright (c) 2001, Michael Jennings
